---
id: crafting-a-good-pull-request
title: Crafting a Good Pull Request
sidebar_label: Crafting a Good Pull Request
---

_A guide to crafting good pull requests._

## Atomicity

An atomic pull request is self-contained and independent of other pull requests. It should be a small, production-ready 
change with everything included. In practice, an atomic pull request will contain all supporting tests, documentation and 
relevant examples. In a sense, it is similar to an atomic operation in concurrent programming.

Pull requests that merge into master should be atomic.

## Size Matters

Each pull request should be small and address exactly one concern. As a rule of thumb, a pull request should contain ~10 files
with substantial changes. Large pull requests are difficult and tedious to review. For an in-depth discussion,
see [Google's Engineering Practices Documentation](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/developer/small-cls.html).

## The Anatomy of Good Pull Requests

A good pull request describes _what_ changes are made and _why_ they are made.

### Short Titles

The title of a pull request should be a short summary of _what_ is being accomplished. It should be informative enough to 
describe what the pull request does without reading the description.

A title should be phrased as an imperative sentence (without a trailing .). For example, "Remove Palette and replace it with Styles", 
instead of "Removing Palette and replacing it with Styles".

Following the naming convention outlined in [Git Gud](./git-gud.md), a branch name is **not** a suitable title. Using it will result in 
something ill-formatted and vague. Since the default title generated by GitHub is derived from the branch's name, it should therefore be avoided.

### Detailed Descriptions

The title should be a short summary while the description should contain the details and information needed for a reader to understand the changes holistically,
i.e. (_why_ something was changed). It should not be empty barring the most trivial bug fixes. Bullet points may be preferred over a lengthy prose in some situations.

If a pull request contains changes to the UI, consider attaching images of the altered UI.

Listed below are some useful prompts for crafting descriptions under different circumstances. They should not be blindly applied to all descriptions.

* Are there other pull requests or issues related to this pull request?

* What is the problem being solved?

* Why is this the best approach?

* Are there any shortcomings to this approach?

* Is there any relevant background information or context?

* Is there any future work that needs to be addressed?

### Counterexamples
Listed below are some examples of inadequate descriptions. They lack information on what is being changed and why so.

* "Fix build"

* "Fix bug"

* "Add function"

* "Delete class"